implementation_plan.md, before:

# Implementation Plan: MCP + Vercel AI SDK UI Integration

## Phase 1: Project Setup and Dependencies
1. Initialize Next.js project with TypeScript
   - Create new Next.js 14+ project
   - Set up TypeScript configuration
   - Initialize git repository

2. Install Required Dependencies
   ```bash
   npm install ai @vercel/ai-sdk openai mcp-sdk react react-dom
   ```

## Phase 2: MCP Server Implementation
1. Create MCP Server Structure
   - Set up MCP server directory structure
   - Implement basic MCP server configuration
   - Define resource and tool interfaces

2. Implement Core MCP Features
   - Create context enrichment middleware
   - Set up tool definitions (e.g., weather, data fetching)
   - Implement tool execution handlers
   - Add error handling and logging

3. Create MCP Client Utilities
   - Implement MCP client wrapper
   - Add context fetching utilities
   - Create tool invocation helpers

## Phase 3: Frontend UI Development
1. Create Base Chat Components
   - Implement chat container component
   - Add message list component
   - Create message input component
   - Style components with CSS/Tailwind

2. Implement Tool-Specific UI Components
   - Create reusable tool result components
   - Add loading states and error handling
   - Implement dynamic component rendering

3. Set Up Chat State Management
   - Configure useChat hook
   - Add message handling logic
   - Implement tool result rendering

## Phase 4: Backend API Implementation
1. Create API Routes
   - Set up chat endpoint
   - Implement streaming response handling
   - Add MCP integration middleware

2. Implement LLM Integration
   - Configure OpenAI client
   - Set up streaming text processing
   - Add tool calling capabilities

3. Add Context Processing
   - Implement context enrichment
   - Add tool result processing
   - Set up error handling

## Phase 5: Integration and Testing
1. Connect All Components
   - Link frontend to API routes
   - Connect API routes to MCP server
   - Test end-to-end flow

2. Implement Error Handling
   - Add error boundaries
   - Implement retry logic
   - Add user feedback mechanisms

3. Add Loading States
   - Implement loading indicators
   - Add progress feedback
   - Handle streaming states

## Phase 6: Optimization and Polish
1. Performance Optimization
   - Implement caching where appropriate
   - Optimize bundle size
   - Add performance monitoring

2. Security Measures
   - Add input validation
   - Implement rate limiting
   - Secure API endpoints

3. Final Testing and Documentation
   - Write API documentation
   - Add usage examples
   - Create deployment guide

## Directory Structure
```
├── src/
│   ├── app/
│   │   ├── api/
│   │   │   └── chat/
│   │   │       └── route.ts
│   │   ├── layout.tsx
│   │   └── page.tsx
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── Chat/
│   │   │   ├── ChatContainer.tsx
│   │   │   ├── MessageList.tsx
│   │   │   └── MessageInput.tsx
│   │   └── Tools/
│   │       ├── WeatherWidget.tsx
│   │       └── DataDisplay.tsx
│   ├── lib/
│   │   ├── mcp/
│   │   │   ├── server.ts
│   │   │   ├── client.ts
│   │   │   └── tools/
│   │   │       ├── weather.ts
│   │   │       └── data.ts
│   │   └── utils/
│   │       ├── api.ts
│   │       └── streaming.ts
│   └── types/
│       ├── chat.ts
│       └── tools.ts
├── public/
├── package.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

## Implementation Order
1. Start with Phase 1 to set up the project structure
2. Move to Phase 2 to establish MCP infrastructure
3. Implement Phase 3 for basic UI functionality
4. Add Phase 4 backend capabilities
5. Integrate all components in Phase 5
6. Finally, optimize and polish in Phase 6

Each phase should be completed and tested before moving to the next to ensure stable progression. 

## Suggested MCP Tools & Connections

### Data Sources & APIs
1. Weather Service
   - Current weather conditions
   - Weather forecasts
   - Severe weather alerts
   - Historical weather data

2. Knowledge Base Integration
   - Document search and retrieval
   - FAQ database access
   - Internal wiki integration
   - PDF/document parsing

3. External Data Services
   - Stock market data
   - News API integration
   - Currency exchange rates
   - Cryptocurrency data

4. Database Connections
   - PostgreSQL query interface
   - MongoDB document retrieval
   - Redis cache integration
   - Time-series data access

5. Development Tools
   - GitHub repository access
   - JIRA ticket creation/updates
   - CI/CD pipeline status
   - Code search and analysis

### System Tools
1. File Operations
   - File reading/writing
   - Directory operations
   - File format conversion
   - Image processing

2. Monitoring & Analytics
   - System metrics collection
   - Error logging
   - Usage statistics
   - Performance monitoring

3. Security Tools
   - Authentication checks
   - Permission validation
   - Rate limiting
   - Security scan results

## Suggested UI Components

### Data Visualization
1. Charts & Graphs
   - Line charts for time series
   - Bar charts for comparisons
   - Pie charts for distributions
   - Heat maps for complex data
   - Candlestick charts for financial data

2. Data Tables
   - Sortable columns
   - Filterable rows
   - Pagination controls
   - Export functionality
   - Inline editing

3. Maps & Geospatial
   - Interactive maps
   - Location markers
   - Heat maps
   - Route visualization
   - Geographic data overlays

### Interactive Elements
1. Form Components
   - Rich text editor
   - Date/time pickers
   - Multi-select dropdowns
   - Auto-complete inputs
   - File upload/preview

2. Dialog & Modal Systems
   - Confirmation dialogs
   - Tool configuration modals
   - Error message displays
   - Progress indicators
   - Success notifications

3. Chat Interface Elements
   - Message bubbles
   - Code blocks with syntax highlighting
   - Markdown rendering
   - Image/media previews
   - Typing indicators

### Tool-Specific Components
1. Weather Displays
   - Current conditions card
   - 5-day forecast
   - Radar maps
   - Severe weather alerts

2. Financial Components
   - Stock tickers
   - Price charts
   - Portfolio summary
   - Transaction history

3. Document Viewers
   - PDF viewer
   - Code viewer
   - Image gallery
   - Video player

4. Analysis Tools
   - Data filters
   - Search interfaces
   - Comparison views
   - Analytics dashboards

### Layout Components
1. Navigation
   - Sidebar navigation
   - Breadcrumb trails
   - Tab systems
   - Tool switcher

2. Responsive Containers
   - Grid layouts
   - Flex containers
   - Card layouts
   - List views

3. State Indicators
   - Loading spinners
   - Progress bars
   - Status badges
   - Error boundaries

Each of these components should be:
- Fully responsive
- Accessibility compliant
- Theme-aware
- Reusable and configurable
- Well-documented
- Performance optimized

Commit message:

Add Next.js project with streaming chat implementation and updated implementation plan

implementation_plan.md, after:

# Implementation Plan: MCP + Vercel AI SDK UI Integration

When running commands in terminal, use ; not &&

## Phase 1: Project Setup and Dependencies
1. Initialize Next.js project with TypeScript
   - Create new Next.js 14+ project
   - Set up TypeScript configuration
   - Initialize git repository

2. Install Required Dependencies
   ```bash
   npm install ai @vercel/ai-sdk openai mcp-sdk react react-dom
   ```

## Phase 2: MCP Server Implementation
1. Create MCP Server Structure
   - Set up MCP server directory structure
   - Implement basic MCP server configuration
   - Define resource and tool interfaces

2. Implement Core MCP Features
   - Create context enrichment middleware
   - Set up tool definitions (e.g., weather, data fetching)
   - Implement tool execution handlers
   - Add error handling and logging

3. Create MCP Client Utilities
   - Implement MCP client wrapper
   - Add context fetching utilities
   - Create tool invocation helpers

## Phase 3: Frontend UI Development
1. Create Base Chat Components
   - Implement chat container component
   - Add message list component
   - Create message input component
   - Style components with CSS/Tailwind

2. Implement Tool-Specific UI Components
   - Create reusable tool result components
   - Add loading states and error handling
   - Implement dynamic component rendering

3. Set Up Chat State Management
   - Configure useChat hook
   - Add message handling logic
   - Implement tool result rendering

## Phase 4: Backend API Implementation
1. Create API Routes
   - Set up chat endpoint with streaming support
   - Implement streaming response handling using Response.json() streams
   - Add server-sent events (SSE) for real-time updates
   - Configure proper CORS headers for streaming
   - Add MCP integration middleware

2. Implement LLM Integration with Streaming
   - Configure OpenAI client with streaming capabilities
   - Set up chunk-by-chunk text processing
   - Implement proper stream closing and error handling
   - Add backpressure handling for large responses
   - Configure timeout and retry mechanisms
   - Add tool calling capabilities

3. Add Context Processing
   - Implement context enrichment
   - Add tool result processing
   - Set up error handling

## Phase 5: Integration and Testing
1. Connect All Components
   - Link frontend to API routes
   - Connect API routes to MCP server
   - Test end-to-end flow

2. Implement Error Handling
   - Add error boundaries
   - Implement retry logic
   - Add user feedback mechanisms

3. Add Loading States
   - Implement loading indicators
   - Add progress feedback
   - Handle streaming states

## Phase 6: Optimization and Polish
1. Performance Optimization
   - Implement caching where appropriate
   - Optimize bundle size
   - Add performance monitoring

2. Security Measures
   - Add input validation
   - Implement rate limiting
   - Secure API endpoints

3. Final Testing and Documentation
   - Write API documentation
   - Add usage examples
   - Create deployment guide

## Directory Structure
```
├── src/
│   ├── app/
│   │   ├── api/
│   │   │   └── chat/
│   │   │       └── route.ts
│   │   ├── layout.tsx
│   │   └── page.tsx
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── Chat/
│   │   │   ├── ChatContainer.tsx
│   │   │   ├── MessageList.tsx
│   │   │   └── MessageInput.tsx
│   │   └── Tools/
│   │       ├── WeatherWidget.tsx
│   │       └── DataDisplay.tsx
│   ├── lib/
│   │   ├── mcp/
│   │   │   ├── server.ts
│   │   │   ├── client.ts
│   │   │   └── tools/
│   │   │       ├── weather.ts
│   │   │       └── data.ts
│   │   └── utils/
│   │       ├── api.ts
│   │       └── streaming.ts
│   └── types/
│       ├── chat.ts
│       └── tools.ts
├── public/
├── package.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

## Implementation Order
1. Start with Phase 1 to set up the project structure
2. Move to Phase 2 to establish MCP infrastructure
3. Implement Phase 3 for basic UI functionality
4. Add Phase 4 backend capabilities
5. Integrate all components in Phase 5
6. Finally, optimize and polish in Phase 6

Each phase should be completed and tested before moving to the next to ensure stable progression. 

## Suggested MCP Tools & Connections

### Data Sources & APIs
1. Weather Service
   - Current weather conditions
   - Weather forecasts
   - Severe weather alerts
   - Historical weather data

2. Knowledge Base Integration
   - Document search and retrieval
   - FAQ database access
   - Internal wiki integration
   - PDF/document parsing

3. External Data Services
   - Stock market data
   - News API integration
   - Currency exchange rates
   - Cryptocurrency data

4. Database Connections
   - PostgreSQL query interface
   - MongoDB document retrieval
   - Redis cache integration
   - Time-series data access

5. Development Tools
   - GitHub repository access
   - JIRA ticket creation/updates
   - CI/CD pipeline status
   - Code search and analysis

### System Tools
1. File Operations
   - File reading/writing
   - Directory operations
   - File format conversion
   - Image processing

2. Monitoring & Analytics
   - System metrics collection
   - Error logging
   - Usage statistics
   - Performance monitoring

3. Security Tools
   - Authentication checks
   - Permission validation
   - Rate limiting
   - Security scan results

## Suggested UI Components

### Data Visualization
1. Charts & Graphs
   - Line charts for time series
   - Bar charts for comparisons
   - Pie charts for distributions
   - Heat maps for complex data
   - Candlestick charts for financial data

2. Data Tables
   - Sortable columns
   - Filterable rows
   - Pagination controls
   - Export functionality
   - Inline editing

3. Maps & Geospatial
   - Interactive maps
   - Location markers
   - Heat maps
   - Route visualization
   - Geographic data overlays

### Interactive Elements
1. Form Components
   - Rich text editor
   - Date/time pickers
   - Multi-select dropdowns
   - Auto-complete inputs
   - File upload/preview

2. Dialog & Modal Systems
   - Confirmation dialogs
   - Tool configuration modals
   - Error message displays
   - Progress indicators
   - Success notifications

3. Chat Interface Elements
   - Message bubbles
   - Code blocks with syntax highlighting
   - Markdown rendering
   - Image/media previews
   - Typing indicators

### Tool-Specific Components
1. Weather Displays
   - Current conditions card
   - 5-day forecast
   - Radar maps
   - Severe weather alerts

2. Financial Components
   - Stock tickers
   - Price charts
   - Portfolio summary
   - Transaction history

3. Document Viewers
   - PDF viewer
   - Code viewer
   - Image gallery
   - Video player

4. Analysis Tools
   - Data filters
   - Search interfaces
   - Comparison views
   - Analytics dashboards

### Layout Components
1. Navigation
   - Sidebar navigation
   - Breadcrumb trails
   - Tab systems
   - Tool switcher

2. Responsive Containers
   - Grid layouts
   - Flex containers
   - Card layouts
   - List views

3. State Indicators
   - Loading spinners
   - Progress bars
   - Status badges
   - Error boundaries

Each of these components should be:
- Fully responsive
- Accessibility compliant
- Theme-aware
- Reusable and configurable
- Well-documented
- Performance optimized
